In this video, we'll talk about the difference between private and public blockchains.
Ethereum is a public blockchain.
This means that any computer from around
the world can participate in the Ethereum network.
We call such computers nodes,
and anyone with access to the Ethereum node can
create their public Ethereum address that we call a wallet.
A private blockchain operates very similarly,
except that it doesn't allow just anyone to participate in
this network but only those nodes and users that are permissioned to do so.
You may have a private version of the Ethereum blockchain,
but then that network cannot be part of
the public Ethereum network that we're all familiar with.
Private blockchains have entirely different use cases.
For example, JPMorgan, a huge financial institution,
is developing a project called Quorum,
which is a private version of Ethereum.
It's intended to be used by enterprise companies who need to be very
careful about what nodes can handle their sensitive financial information.
Private blockchains allow you to control what nodes participate in the network.
Because there is a centralized authority that controls the participant list,
private blockchains by definition are highly censored.
The motivation behind running private blockchains is that you can allow
only trusted nodes to participate and operate on sensitive data.
In this course, we'll learn about
a popular Ethereum local test environment that'll just run on your computer.
Because this test environment is local and accessible by only your computer,
we can technically call it private.
To run a local version of Ethereum on your computer,
we'll use a great tool called Ganache.
Ganache is a very easy to use and well-maintained tool
to help you develop on Ethereum in a local environment.
Follow the instructions below on how to download and install both Ganache and Ganahe CLI.
If you're comfortable with command-line interface tools,
I'll recommend using Ganache CLI.
But also be aware that there is a graphical user interface version for Ganache as well.
If you'll be using the command line tool,
go ahead and open a terminal window and type ganache-cli after installation.
You'll see your local network being
initialized with 10 test account and their private keys.
All of them are loaded with 100 ether each for you to play around with.
If you're using the graphical user interface,
all you have to do is open the app,
and you'll see the same thing in a graphical format..
Okay, let's go back to Remix.
If you're using the same browser and computer,
then Remix will automatically save all your previous work.
You should see the simple star notary contract we worked on before.
We won't change any code,
but we will change the environment to where our code will be deployed.
Last time, we used a test environment in the browser.
This time, we'll deploy it to our Ganache local network.
Go back to the run tab, but this time,
choose Web3 Provider from the environment drop-down.
It'll ask you if you're sure you want to select this option, and click "Yes".
Next screen is going to ask you for
the end point of the Ethereum node you want to connect to,
and it should be prepopulated with
a local Ganache network that's running on your computer.
If you use Ganache CLI,
this should be localhost:8545,
and if you're using Ganache's graphical user interface,
the endpoint should be localhost:7545.
Also note that if you ever stop your Ganache app or process,
you'll have to reload the Remix page and redo the steps to reconnect.
Once you specified which network you want to deploy to,
go ahead and click "Deploy".
If you look at Ganache,
you should see that transaction go through to create your contract.
With the command line, it'll look something like this.
If you're using the Ganache graphical user interface app,
it'll look something like this.
We can use Remix just like last time to make calls on your smart contract,
and you'll see that these transactions go through Ganache instead.
Congrats, you deployed your first smart contract to local tests Ethereum network.
Deploying to one of the official Ethereum test networks
or even Ethereum main net is just as easy.
To recap, in this segment,
we learned how to deploy our smart contract to our private local version of Ethereum.
This allows us to have greater visibility in how
our smart contract would behave on the real Ethereum main net.
On the next lesson,
we'll continue to build onto our smart contract and introduce
more complexity to build a full-blown decentralized app.